## Population Dynamics

This directory contains header files related to the population dynamics specified in FIMS. The population dynamics modules are responsible for modeling the growth, reproduction, and survival of populations over time. It includes classes and functions that define the population structure, life-history traits, and environmental factors that influence population dynamics.

Each folder in `population_dynamics` corresponds to a component of the population dynamics model. Given the complexity of the component, the structure in these folders within `population_dynamics` may differ. At a minimum there will be a .hpp file with the same name as the subfolder, e.g., `fleet/fleet.hpp`. This file will include an `ifndef` directive and `#include` statements. If the folder is empty other than this file, then the remainder of the file will define the component. If there are additional subdirectors along side the .hpp file, the file will end after the include statements that point to each of the files in the functions folder that sits next to this .hpp file.

For the latter scenario, where a `functor` folder exists, inside the `functor` folder will be a .hpp file with _base attached to the component name, e.g., `population_dynamics/maturity/functors/maturity_base.hpp`. This _base.hpp file will define the base class for the module type. The base class should only need a constructor method and a number of methods (e.g., `evaluate()`) that are not specific to the type of functions available under the subfolders but reused for all objects of that class type. This is important for life-history processes where there is structural uncertainty in the model and users may wish to investigate different forms, e.g., Beverton--Holt versus Ricker stock--recruitment relationships. Often, there will only be one functor in the subfolder but there will still be a subfolder structure. This structure is to allow for future expansion of the module type.

Many times, the files will look very similar to each other such as for logistic maturity and logistic selectivity. In these cases, the files will be identical except for the name of the class and the name of the base class that it references. Both of the files use the same function within `fims_math.hpp` to calculate the logistic function it is only their setup that differs. Therefore, pattern matching can be used to create new files.
