# 🧪 Testing cheatsheet

## :scroll: Create a test file
### C++
1. `FIMS:::use_gtest_template()`: Create a new file `tests/gtest/test_class_function.cpp` 
for GoogleTest and register the test in the `tests/gtest/CMakeLists.txt` file.

### R 
1. `FIMS:::use_testthat_template()`: Create a new file `tests/testthat/test-function_name.R` 
for {testthat}.

## 🛢️ Prepare test data
### In-line test data
- Write setup code directly in the `setup` section of the test file.

### C++
1. **Reusable test data**: Create a `tests/gtest/test_XXX_test_fixture.hpp` 
file and write code to prepare test data.
1. **Integration test data**: Create a `tests/gtest/integration/XXX.hpp` 
file and write code to prepare test data.

### R reusable test data
1. Write code to `prepare_test_data()` in 
`tests/testthat/helper-integration-tests-setup-run.R`.
1. If package data are needed, make sure 
`tests/testthat/fixtures/integration_test_data_components.RData` and 
`tests/testthat/fixtures/integration_test_data.RData` are preloaded in 
`prepare_test_data()` as both are generated by running `R/data1.R`.
1. Save test data with 
`base::saveRDS(object, file = testthat::test_path("fixtures", "data_name.RDS"))`.
1. In test file that requires the test data, call `prepare_test_data()` to load 
the data:
```r
if (!file.exists(test_path("fixtures", "data_name.RDS"))) {
  prepare_test_data()
}
```
1. `FIMS:::remove_test_data()`: Remove test data from `tests/testthat/fixtures` 
to run the tests from fresh if changes in the core code affect FIMS input or 
output.

## :hammer: Helper functions to set up tests
### R integration tests
1. `setup_and_run_FIMS_without_wrappers()`: Set up a FIMS model without wrappers 
(in `tests/testthat/helper-integration-tests-setup-run.R`).
1. `setup_and_run_FIMS_with_wrappers()`: Set up a FIMS model with wrappers (in 
`tests/testthat/helper-integration-tests-setup-run.R`).
1. `verify_fims_deterministic()`: Compare the FIMS model deterministic run output
against the expected "truth" from an operating model (in
`tests/testthat/helper-integration-tests-validation.R`).
1. `verify_fims_nll()`: Compare the FIMS model NLL against the expected NLL
calculated from an operating model (in
`tests/testthat/helper-integration-tests-validation.R`).
1. `validate_fims()`: Compare the FIMS model estimation run output against the 
expected "truth" from an operating model (in
`tests/testthat/helper-integration-tests-validation.R`)

## :computer: Run tests
### C++
1. `FIMS:::setup_and_run_gtest()`: Set up integration test data and run the 
GoogleTest suite.
1. `FIMS:::run_gtest()`: Run the GoogleTest suite.

### R
1. Add `testthat::skip_on_ci()` at the beginning of a test file to skip it during
continuous integration runs.
1. Add `testthat::skip_on_covr()` at the beginning of a test file to skip it
during coverage calculation.
1. Run `devtools::test()` to execute all tests in the package.
1. Run `devtools::test(filter = "test_file_name")` to execute a specific test file.
1. `FIMS:::run_r_unit_tests()`: Run all R unit tests in the package.
1. `FIMS:::run_r_integration_tests()`: Run all R integration tests in the package.
1. `FIMS:::check_fims()`: Run all styling, documentation, and testing for FIMS
repository.

## :bug: Debug tests
### C++
1. Run following lines in terminal and use gdb to debug:
```bash
cmake -S . -B build -G Ninja -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug
cmake --build build --parallel 16
ctest --test-dir build --parallel 16
gdb ./build/tests/gtest/population_dynamics_population.exe
c // to continue without paging
run // to see which line of code is broken
print this->log_naa // for example, print this->log_naa to see the value of log_naa; 
print i // for example, print i from the broken for loop
bt // backtrace
q // to quit
```

1. Write print statements in the desired .hpp file
```cpp
nfleets = fleets.size();
std::ofstream out("debug.txt");
out <<nfleets;
```

1. Start the debugger using `R -d gdb` and then type `R` to start R. See detailed
instructions [here](https://webhomes.maths.ed.ac.uk/~swood34/RCdebug/RCdebug.html).

### R
1. A call to `base::browser()` can be included in the body of a function to pause
execution of a test and allow for interactive debugging.